---
layout: post
title: "MCNN 论文：Memristor-Based Cellular Nonlinear/Neural Network: Design, Analysis, and Applications"
categories: MNN_paper
tags:
    - "analog computing"
    - "MCNN"
---

<script type="text/javascript" src="http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=default"></script>

authors:
Shukai Duan, Member, IEEE, Xiaofang Hu, Student Member, IEEE, Zhekang Dong, Student Member, IEEE, Lidan Wang, Member, IEEE, and Pinaki Mazumder, Fellow, IEEE

> S. Duan, X. Hu, Z. Dong, L. Wang and P. Mazumder, "Memristor-Based Cellular Nonlinear/Neural Network: Design, Analysis, and Applications," in IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, vol. 26, no. 6, pp. 1202-1213, June 2015, doi: 10.1109/TNNLS.2014.2334701.

Here is abstract:

> Cellular nonlinear/neural network (CNN) has been recognized as a powerful massively parallel architecture capable of solving complex engineering problems by performing trillions of analog operations per second. The memristor was theoretically predicted in the late seventies, but it garnered nascent research interest due to the recent much-acclaimed discovery of nanocrossbar memories by engineers at the Hewlett-Packard Laboratory. The memristor is expected to be co-integrated with nanoscale CMOS technology to revolutionize conventional von Neumann as well as neuromorphic computing. In this paper, a compact CNN model based on memristors is presented along with its performance analysis and applications. In the new CNN design, the memristor bridge circuit acts as the synaptic circuit element and substitutes the complex multiplication circuit used in traditional CNN architectures. In addition, the negative differential resistance and nonlinear current–voltage characteristics of the memristor have been leveraged to replace the linear resistor in conventional CNNs. The proposed CNN design has several merits, for example, high density, nonvolatility, and programmability of synaptic weights. The proposed memristor-based CNN design operations for implementing several image processing functions are illustrated through simulation and contrasted with conventional CNNs. Monte-Carlo simulation has been used to demonstrate the behavior of the proposed CNN due to the variations in memristor synaptic weights.

Note that the CNN here is *Cellular neural network*, not *Convolutional neural network*!

## Contribution:

- Proposed a novel type of M-CNN:

    1. The memristor bridge circuit is employed to realize the interactions between the neighbouring cells.

    1. Memristor model is practical model based on experimental data.

## Memristor Basics

Memristor: 
$$\dfrac{\mathrm{d}\phi}{\mathrm{d}t}=\dfrac{\mathrm{d}\phi(q)}{\mathrm{d}q}\cdot\dfrac{\mathrm{d}q}{\mathrm{d}t}$$
Where $$\phi$$ is flux and $$q$$ is charge. And we can derivate this:
$$v(t)=\dfrac{\mathrm{d}\phi(q)}{\mathrm{d}q}\cdot i(t)=M(q)i(t)$$
Where $$M(q)$$ is **memristance** which is the resistance of a memristor.

Define a stage variable $$x$$ which is the width of *Simmons tunnel barrier* and *tunnel barrier* determines the memristance magnitude. We can represent $$x$$ by:
$$\dfrac{\mathrm{d}x(t)}{\mathrm{d}t}=\left\{\begin{matrix}c_{OFF}\sinh\left(\dfrac{i}{i_{OFF}}\right)\exp\left[-\exp\left(\dfrac{x-a_{OFF}}{w_c}-\dfrac{|i|}{b}\right)-\dfrac{x}{w_c}\right],&i>0\\c_{ON}\sinh\left(\dfrac{i}{i_{ON}}\right)\exp\left[-\exp\left(-\dfrac{x-a_{ON}}{w_c}-\dfrac{|i|}{b}\right)-\dfrac{x}{w_c}\right],&i<0\end{matrix}\right.$$
where $$c_{OFF}$$, $$c_{ON}$$, $$i_{OFF}$$, $$i_{ON}$$, $$a_{OFF}$$, $$a_{ON}$$, $$w_c$$, and $$b$$ are the fitting parameters, in which the parameters $$c_{OFF}$$ and $$c_{ON}$$ influence the change in magnitude of $$x$$, the parameters $$i_{OFF}$$ and $$i_{on}$$ reflect the current thresholds, and $$a_{OFF}$$ and $$a_{on}$$ are the upper and the lower bounds of $$x$$, respectively.