---
layout: post
title: FMNN 论文：A Switched Operation Approach to Sampled-Data Control Stabilization of Fuzzy Memristive Neural Networks With Time-Varying Delay
categories: MNN_paper
tags:
    - "analog computing"
    - "MNN"
---

<script type="text/javascript" src="http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=default"></script>

authors:
Xin Wang , Ju H. Park , Shouming Zhong , and Huilan Yang of Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China

> X. Wang, J. H. Park, S. Zhong and H. Yang, "A Switched Operation Approach to Sampled-Data Control Stabilization of Fuzzy Memristive Neural Networks With Time-Varying Delay," in IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 891-900, March 2020, doi: 10.1109/TNNLS.2019.2910574.

Here is abstract:

>This paper investigates the issue of sampled-data stabilization for Takagi-Sugeno fuzzy memristive neural networks (FMNNs) with time-varying delay. First, the concerned FMNNs are transformed into the tractable fuzzy NNs based on the excitatory and inhibitory of memristive synaptic weights using a new convex combination technique. Meanwhile, a switched fuzzy sampled-data controller is employed for the first time to tackle stability problems related to FMNNs. Then, the novel stabilization criteria of the FMNNs are established using the fuzzy membership functions (FMFs)-dependent Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional. This sufficiently utilizes information from not only the delayed state and the actual sampling pattern but also the FMFs. Two simulation examples are presented to demonstrate the feasibility and validity of the proposed method.

## Background : Takagi–Sugeno (T–S) fuzzy model

Refering: [T-S模糊模型](https://wenku.baidu.com/view/5c66a4a5ad51f01dc281f178.html)

## Contribution:

1. FMNNs were transformed into the tractable fuzzy NNs using a new convex combination
technique by taking the excitatory and inhibitory of memristive synaptic weights into account.

1. A switched FSDC (SFSDC) was designed for the first time to solve the stabilization problem of FMNNs.

1. A switched FSDC (SFSDC) was designed for the first time to solve the stabilization problem of FMNNs.

## Network Model:


**(to be continued)**